02-02-2024
----------

AWS SHADE RESPONSIBILITIES MODELS:

1. Compute 
2. Storage - S3. S3 Glacier
3. Database - RDS,DynamoDB,Arora
4. Networking 
5. Infrastructure
6. Regions
7. Availability Zones and Edge Locations
  In the regions we have the availability zones and in those zones we have the data centers and the nearby locations for the data centers is called as Edge locations
8. OS Patching


User Responsiblities:
1. Client Side Encryption
2. Server side encryption
3. Platform
4. Customer Data in the Client - The user data we take to run or migrate in the cloud (User security in the Cloud and the User Security off the cloud)
5. Applications



1. IAM 
2. Network Traffic


IN the AWS, maintaining the physical server is also more important
Manage - 



EC2: AWS AND CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITY

Elastic compute cloud lies under infrastructure as a service and the responsiblity model for both cloud service provider and customer is as follows:

1. AWS Responsiblity
2. Customer Responsibility


AWS Pricing:
------------
dedicated host - where we rent the server, whatever we want to do (add/delete etc..) will be taken by the user 
1.AWS lambda
2.Amazon lightdall
3.elastic load balancing

On-Demand : when we define EC2 Instance if we want to use on day
Reserved instances:
Spot Instances : if we want to use immediately we will use it
it is directly related to the direct amount we have.

We have three types of costs:
1. upfront costs : if a company wants to pay 90 percent of money usage before hand and get the huge discounts
2. partial costs : the company want to pay only the 50 to 60 percent of money before hand and get the partial discounts (Small Company)
3. no upfront costs: here we pay only for what we use there will be no discounts.


* Scaling - This comes under AutoScaling
  Expansion and Compression based on the user request the data will be increased space or decreased
 
* Agility - Calculate the Performance and it is used for market.


TCO (Total Cost of Ownership):
* Investment in the Cloud vs physical location
* AWS Cost Explorer - (Gives us the estimated amount for the services we want to use)
* AWS Billing and Cost Management 
* AWS Budgets - 
  There are two ways
  before doing task-- the budget will be given as estimated amount
  after doing task -- It is called as Bill.
* AWS Market Place -- Everything about our budget or business Strategies.

AWS Trusted Advisor :
* It Provides the real-time asisstance

Data Storage Transfer:
----------------------
* when we use data storage transfer resources you pay on a per gigabytes basis
* This pricing model is also known as Tiered
1. AWS Snowball - IN this we can execute and store the petabytes amount of data it is for only for the desktop
2. AWS Snowmobile
3. Amazon Glacier
4. AWS Snowball Edge

Data Encryption:

1. Encryption transit - Transition of data from one service to another service
   Services we use are : SSL(Secure Socket Layer)
                         VPN(Virtual Private Network)
                         Load Balancers
                         S3 and RDS

2. Encryption at rest - Which happens in the data which is stored in the drives or in the system (No Movement)
   Services we use are : S3,EBS(for the block store0,RDS and EFS(for the file store)
