
31-01-2023
------------
DATABASE SERVICES:-

it is used for storing the minimum amount of data to petabyte data

there are two different categories:
1. Relational databases Eg: RDS services

  RDS: 
  Simple example is excel because data is stored in the table format with the attribute and the value
  Services:
  1. Amazon RDS 
      * My SQL
      * PostgreSql - which is mainly for developers and enterprise companies.
      * MariaDB - compatable with mysql and high efficiency and less retrieval time.
      * Amazon Arora - compatable with mySQL
  
  2. DynamoDB- it is an no sql database and it is a key-value pair (High throughput, lOwlatency, reads and writes, endless scale)
      There are two modes : 1. Provision Mode-Every thing reads and writes of data given to user
                            2. On-Demand Mode-Here based on the given user request the data access given
             These are used for the Scalability.
 
  3. DocumentDB - Store documents and quickly access querying on any attribute
  4. In-memory - All programs are executed. 
      in this we called cache as Elasti-cache(used to run the programs faster that to parallel i.e., Independently)
      There are 2 types of Elati-cache 1. Mem Cache - it is for the number of reads and writes Eg: Google Chrome
                                       2. Redis Cache - it is ready for storage 
                                            1. The person who are executing the data faster with the data
                                            2. The person who are getting the data
  5. S3 Glacier - Data archiving and long term backup, resoter
                  large amount of data 
                  immediate retrieval of data is S3 Instant retrieval
                  IF we want to store the data for long time i.e., years 
     S3 Flexible Retrieval-IF we want to retrive data from 5- min to 12 hrs
     S3 Deep Archiever- If we want to store the data for rarely access

AWS Services Related to AI and ML:
1. AWS SageMaker - it is used for fully managed ML Service
2. Amazon Rekognition - It is mainly used in image processing (identify and store the data in images)
3. Amazon Polly - Text-to-speech converter
4. Amazon Comprehend - NLP Service (Natural Language Service)
5. Amazon Lex - Mainly for the chatbots 
6. AWS Athena - It is used for analyzing the S3 data 
7. AWS Kinesis - It is used for collecting and analyzing the data which is for data screaming
   Eg: CloudFront: it is a Content-Delivery Network (CDL)
8. AWS Glue - It is mainly for ETL services (Extract Transfer and Load)

     
   These are used for granting the permissions using users by IAM. 
     ACL - Access Control List
     NACL - Network Access Control list
   




Applications for the Databases:
1. ERP
2. CRM
3. Gaming Applications























2. Non - Relational databases